# Part 2

| Function | Optimal runtime |
|---|---|
| insert() |  O(1)|
| size() | O(1)|
| empty() |O(1) |
| erase() |O(1) |
| copy constr. | O(n)| 
| copy assignment  |O(n) |
| move constr. |O(1) |
| move assignment |O(1) |

# Part 5: Analysis of the recursive methods

## Fibonacci sequence Problem

Let **_n_** represent the **fibonacci number**.

Let **_T(n)_** represent number of operations needed to find **_the fib of n_** using the code.

```cpp
int* fibArray(int n) {
    int *ret = new int[n];                          //  2
    std::map<int, int> lookup = {{1,1} , {2, 1}};   //  6
    ret[0] = 1;                                     //  2
    ret[1] = 1;                                     //  2
    int a = fib_efficient(n, lookup, ret);          //  1 + T(n)
    return ret;                                     //  1
}

int fib_efficient(int n, std::map<int, int> &lookup, int* arr) {
    
    if(lookup[n])               //  2
        return lookup[n];       //  1
    else {
        int res = fib_efficient(n-1, lookup, arr) + fib_efficient(n-2, lookup, arr);    //  2 + T(n-1) + T(n-2)
        lookup[n] = res;        //  2
        arr[n-1] = res;         //  3
        return res;             //  1
    }
}

```

When n is 1 or 2, 3 operations are executed in fib_efficient().

`T(1) = 3`

`T(2) = 3`

Basic operations from fibArray() is `14 + T(n)`

and

`T(n) = 10 + T(n-1) + T(n-2)`

`T(n - 1) = 10 + T(n-2) + T(n-3)`

`T(n - 2) = 10 + T(n-3) + T(n-4)`

...

`T(1) = 3`

`T(2) = 3`

Since there's no 'n' in the equation, 

`T(3) = 10 + 3 + 3 = 16`

`T(4) = 10 + 16 + 3 = 29`

`T(5) = 10 + 29 + 16 = 55`

...

Given that there're n layers, we can say that `T(n) = an + b`, where 'a' and 'b' are constant.

Therefore,  ***T(n)*** is ***O(n2)***


## IntegerToBinary

Let **_n_** represent the **decimal number**.

Let **_T(n)_** represent number of operations needed to find **_the binary of n_** using the code.

```cpp

int* IntegerToBinary(int n) {
    size_t size = log2(n) + 1;          //  4
    int * ret = new int[size];          //  2   
    IntegerToBinary(n, size-1, ret);    //  1 + T(n)
    return ret;                         //  1
}

void IntegerToBinary(int n, size_t size, int* arr) {
    short index = size - floor(log2(n));    //  5
    if(n == 1) {                            //  2
        arr[index] = 1;                     //  2
        return;                             //  1
    }
    arr[index] = n%2;                       //  2
    IntegerToBinary(n/2, size, arr);        //  T(n/2)
}
```

When n is 1, 10 operations are executed in `void IntegerToBinary()`.

 `T(1) = 10`

When n is greater than 1, 9 + T(n/2) operations are executed in `void IntegerToBinary()`.

`T(n) = 9 + T(n/2)`

`T(n/2) = 9 + T(n/4)`

`T(n/4) = 9 + T(n/8)`

...

`T(1) = 10`

There are log_2 n layers.

Thus,

$$ T(n) = 9\cdot log_2(n) + 10 $$

Plus the operations from  `int* IntegerToBinary()`:
$$ T(n) = 9\cdot log_2(n) + 10 + 8$$
$$ T(n) = 9\cdot log_2(n) + 18$$

Therefore,  ***T(n)*** is ***O(log n)***

<br/>

# Part 6 (team member: Yiyuan Dong)

## Write a paragraph or two about things you learned while working on this assignment. Did you learn a new concept? A new way to approach a problem? What was helpful for you when you were trying to implement the coding portions? What challenges did you face that you overcame?

<br/>

Actually we did something similar back in SEP200. I reused some of my code (with modification) from that assignment. I don't think I learned any new concept however, it does remind me of many old concepts such as friend, const, copy/move assignment/consturctor, reference to pointer etc... And it was interesting exploring different ways to implement the recursive functions. I first did those with restrict function signature, meaning I don't use any helper functions. I did analysis and realized that the time complexity of the interger to binary function was O(n) despite I keep divding the list into halves. Then I read the instructions again and realized that I could use helper function. And I implemented an efficient fibonacci recursive algorithm. But the trade off is memory complexity.

Drawing the diagram was helpful. It clearly shows what I should do to implement the functions such as insert(), erase().

The most challenges part was the sort() function. I first draw out the steps on my tablet before I implemented it. I abstracted the swap nodes algorithm first, so it won't get in my way of deriving the sorting algorithm. I thought of using merge sort or quick sort, anything that's faster than O(n^2) but there's no index for the list. So, I thought selection sort would be the best. After thinking through the algorithm for sorting, I went ahead and tried to figure out the swap algorithm.

For the swap algorithm, I decided to declare variables to keep track of the neighbour nodes, it would make things easier. Then I think of the edge cases, draw out the diagrams and then start the implementation. Of course it didn't pass the test. After hours of debugging, I realized that, first, when I swap the nodes, the pointers are swapped as well. But I actually wanted the points to point at the same location, which means after swapping the node, I need to swap the pointers as well. Then I also found out that, the algorithm does not work when the nodes I try to swap are right next to each other. I found out this by drawing a diagram. And finally after hours of debugging everything finally works.

