# Reflection (5 marks)

Over the course of the term, you have been exposed to a variety of data structures. Considering the functionality of a Trie, pick two other data structure we have studied and discuss the following:

## How efficient is the creation Trie vs your chosen data structures.

Given the nature of the Trie, it would be best to impletement it as a tree-like strucure. And given the data structures (list, queue, stack, linked list, hash map. tree) we have studied and discussed,  none of them actually fits the problem except for tree+list and tree+hashmap for the overall structure.

Tree + Linked list could fit the problam but the time complexity is a lot higher since we would have to traverse the list every time to locate the node.  If the length of a letter is n, the worst case to reach or create the node is O(26^n).

Tree + hashmap can be used as well in this case. The key would simply be the letter. Hashmap usually has O(1) time complexity for searching, insertion, lookup and deletion. In our case, we don't really need to search if we use array since we can always convert the letter to index, then we can just locate the node at the time of O(1).

However, if the data cannot be easliy convert into an integer, Tree + hashmap would be ideal. 


## How good will that data structure be at the main look up tasks of a Trie(search and begins_with).

if it's tree + linked list, for look up function, let n be the size of the word, worst case it will take 26 operations to find the right location of the node. For a word of size n, it will take O(26^n). For the search function we have the same time complexity O(26^n) but n here is the size of the longest word that begins with the prefix. 


if it's tree + hashmap, for look up function, let n be the size of the word, it take O(1) to locate the node. So, overall it takes O(n) to find the word in worst case. For search function, let n be the size of the longest word with that prefix. The time complexity will be O(n). 

In the case of tree + hashmap, it's the same as tree + array.


## How can each of the chosen data structures support the two look up tasks (can you use the exist functionality or do you need to do something extra to what is typically returned?)

For tree + linked list, we can utilize the iterator, however, the iterator only returns you the data of the node. In other word, the linked list does not provide us direct access to the node. The solution to this will depend on the actual application. For instance if we have the linked list source file, we can declare the Trie as a friend class. However, using linked list to implement Trie is not ideal at all given the time complexity is exponential even tho n is typically small. 

For tree + hashmap, the table will just be records of {key: letter, value: Node}. There's no extra we need to do. We can just access the node using letter as the key.

